feat: add aws iam authentication to rds feature document (#5503)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/gateway/kong-enterprise/aws-iam-auth-to-rds-database.md

---
title: Use AWS IAM Authentication to connect to RDS database in Kong Gateway Enterprise
badge: enterprise
content_type: reference
---

Starting in version 3.3, {{site.base_gateway}} can be set up to use the AWS IAM Authentication to connect to the AWS RDS database(Postgres). This document describes the details about how to use this feature to secure your database configurations and database connections.

## How does it work

The AWS RDS database provides the ability to allow you to use the AWS Identity and Access Management(IAM) to authenticate and connect.

> With this feature enabled, you don't need to use a password when you connect to a DB instance. Instead, you use a temporary authentication token, which is a unique string of characters that generates on request. The authentication still goes through the standard database authentication, and you don't need to store user credentials in the database, because the authentication is managed externally using IAM. If you're a Kong Enterprise user in the AWS cloud environment, you can apply this feature with proper IAM configuration to your running cluster, so that you don't need to store any database user credentials on both Kong side and the RDS database side.

Reviewer: Let's add a mention here to which password we refer and may be link to that configuration for reference so that users know that they can skip providing `pg_password` and DO NOT skip providing `kong_password` which is still required in bootstrapping for kong admin authentication.

Author: Done

## Prerequisition

Before enabling the AWS IAM Authentication feature, you need to check the following items are properly configured on both your AWS RDS database and your AWS IAM role that Kong instance uses.

- **Enable the IAM database authentication on your DB instance**. This configuration is disabled by default. You can follow the AWS documentation step by step to enable the IAM database authentication on your RDS instance: [https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.Enabling.html](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.Enabling.html).
  You can check the "Configuration" page on your database cluster details. Make sure the value of "IAM DB authentication" is "Enabled".

{:.note}
> **Note:** You must enable SSL connection on your Postgres DB instance, which is usually done by setting `ssl` parameter value to 1 in the parameter group. After enabling the IAM database authentication, you cannot disable the SSL connection.
> **Note:** Currently, TLSv1.3 is not supported by RDS Postgres so you cannot set `pg_ssl_version` to `tlsv1_3`.

> - **Ensure your Kong instance have been assigned an IAM role**. If your Kong cluster are deployed without a proper IAM role, you must assign one first. For example, if your Kong instance is running on an EC2 machine, you can assign EC2 IAM role on your EC2 machine; if you're running Kong in the ECS cluster, you can assign a IAM role as a task role to your ECS service task definition; if you're running Kong in the EKS cluster, you can configure a kubernetes service account that can assume to your assigned role, and configure your pods to use the service account. The Kong instance can discover and fetch the AWS credential to use the assigned IAM role automatically, just like the AWS SDK. For now, it supports fetching through the following ways(in order of precedence):

Author: Done with a little bit different description. Actually, an AWS user is not needed here, we only need a role and its credential set in the environment if we want to run locally

  - Use Environment variables like `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`.
  - Use credential file provided by the environment variable `AWS_SHARED_CREDENTIALS_FILE`.
  - Use [ECS Task IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/userguide/task-iam-roles.html) automatically when the Kong instance is running inside an ECS container
  - Use [IAM role defined by serviceaccount](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/associate-service-account-role.html) inside EKS pod
  - Use [EC2 IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/iam-roles-for-amazon-ec2.html) inside EC2 environment

{:.warning}
> You **cannot** change the value of the environment variables that used to provide the AWS Credential after Kong instance boot up. The change will be ignored and **will not take effect** inside Kong instance.

> - **Ensure the IAM role you assinging to Kong has proper IAM policy**. Below is a simple example policy allows a user "john" to connect to a RDS instance "db-ABCDEFGHIJKL01234" by using the IAM database authentication:

Reviewer: We have also used an IAM policy with `cluster-AWDBDFFSFDFDFS` syntax for Aurora Postgres, we can mention that as well and provide example for that.

Author: I think the `db-XXX` and `cluster-XXX` both work for an Aurora Postgres, and `db-` prefix is for a single instance, `cluster-XX` is for the whole cluster. 

Added another note here mentioning the cluster prefix.

```json
{
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": [
      {
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Action": [
             "rds-db:connect"
         ],
         "Resource": [
             "arn:aws:rds-db:us-east-2:1234567890:dbuser:db-ABCDEFGHIJKL01234/john"
         ]
      }
   ]
}
```

For more details, please check the AWS documentation: [https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.IAMPolicy.html](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.IAMPolicy.html)

> - **Ensure you have the database account created in the RDS**. You need to create the database user and then grant them the `rds_iam` role as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: It would be of great help to first provide a code snippet of how to connect to RDS via `psql` and/or any other tool as a first step prior to creating the user and initial database.

```text
psql "host=db-your-instance-1.c4ka7ay7xeco.us-east-2.rds.amazonaws.com port=5432 user=testuser password=kongtest 
```

This will make the onboarding smoother.

Author: Done, good suggestion!

You can either enable this feature on both read only connection and read write connection, or just enable it on the read only connection. Enabling the feature on readonly will make Kong ignore `pg_ro_password` config property, but it does not influence on the read-write related configs, which means that `pg_user` and `pg_password` will work as normal.

### Environment variable

You can enable by setting the `KONG_PG_IAM_AUTH` environment variable to `on`. Accordingly, if you only want to enable it on the readonly mode of Postgres connections, you can set `KONG_PG_RO_IAM_AUTH` environment variable to `on`.

```bash
# Set KONG_PG_IAM_AUTH if you want to enable the feature on both read and write
KONG_PG_IAM_AUTH=on
# Set KONG_PG_RO_IAM_AUTH if you only want to enable on the read only connection

> KONG_PG_RO_IAM_AUTH=on

Author: I'm having a little bit hard time describing the behavior here... the read only options will always take precedence on read only connections, and all `pg_ro` options behave like that in Kong, so it is already some kind of a tradition

> KONG_PG_RO_IAM_AUTH=on

Author: I'm splitting the read-only config into another paragraph, hope it clarifies the behavior better

- Enabling the AWS IAM Authentication feature requires mandatory SSL connection to the database, which needs you to configure both your RDS cluster properly, and provide correct ssl related configs on Kong's side. Enabling SSL will also introduce some performance overhead(but not much) if you do not use SSL connection to your database in the old time.
- Since the Postgres RDS does not support mTLS, enabling mTLS between the Kong and the Postgres RDS database is not allowed when using this feature.
- After enabling this feature on the read/write mode or on the read-only mode, the `pg_password` or `pg_ro_password` configuration will be ignored accordingly when establishing connections.
- As said in the Prerequisition section, you **cannot** change the value of the environment variables that used to provide the AWS Credential after Kong instance boot up. The change will be ignored and **will not take effect** inside Kong instance.

> - As said in the Prerequisition section, a database user with `rds_iam` role granted cannot authenticate in the normal username/password way, you must use the IAM Database authentication instead.

Reviewer: We could mention in this list one more time that pg_ssl `tlsv1_3` is not supported

Author: Done

```json
{
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": [
      {
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Action": [
             "rds-db:connect"
         ],
         "Resource": [
             "arn:aws:rds-db:us-east-2:1234567890:dbuser:db-ABCDEFGHIJKL01234/john"
         ]
      }
   ]
}
```

{:.note}
> **Note:** In this example, `db-ABCDEFGHIJKL01234` is the resource ID of the RDS instance, which can be found in the "Configuration" page on the AWS Console. If you're using Aurora RDS with Aurora PostgreSQL engine, you can also use a cluster ID to grant permission to authenticate to the cluster, for example `cluster-ABCDEFGHIJKL01234`.

For more details, please check the AWS documentation: [https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.IAMPolicy.html](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.IAMPolicy.html)

- **Ensure you have the database account created in the RDS**. You need to create the database user and then grant them the `rds_iam` role as shown in the following example:

```text
# Connect to your RDS instance by using your master user/password

> $ psql "host=db-your-instance-1.ABCDEFGHIJ12345.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com port=5432 user=testmaster password=testpassword dbname=postgres"

Reviewer: @hat do you think should we add also the `psql` step for granting privileges?

```
grant all privileges on database kong to kong_test
```

Author: I mentioned that `Don't forget to provision the database with creating the database and granting enough permissions to the database user you've just created! You can check the docs at [Using a database](/gateway/latest/install/linux/debian/#using-a-database) in our Installation Options(/gateway/latest/install/)`

So I think we don't need to mention it again here?

## AWS IAM authentication limitations

AWS IAM authentication also has some limitations. Go through each one before you use this feature in your production environment:

* For a traditional {{site.base_gateway}} cluster, only use IAM database authentication if {{site.base_gateway}} requires less than 200 new IAM database authentications per second. Establishing more connections per second can result in throttling. For more information, see [Recommendations for IAM database authentication](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.html#UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.ConnectionsPerSecond) in the Amazon RDS user guide. 
* Enabling AWS IAM authentication requires SSL connection to the database. To do this, you must configure your RDS cluster correctly and provide the correct SSL-related configurations on {{site.base_gateway}}'s side. Enabling SSL also results in some performance overhead if you didn't previously use it. Currently, TLSv1.3 isn't supported by AWS RDS.
- Since the Postgres RDS does not support mTLS, you can't enable mTLS between the {{site.base_gateway}} and the Postgres RDS database when AWS IAM authentication is enabled.

> - After enabling AWS IAM authentication in read-write or read-only mode, the `pg_password` or `pg_ro_password` configuration is ignored when establishing connections.

Author: I now feel this is not a limitation here, Can we move this to the enabling guide section and make it a note?

Reviewer 2: @windmgc Looks like it's already a note in the "Enabling AWS IAM authentication" section, so I'll remove it from limitations and leave that existing note as-is.

## Prerequisites

Before you enable the AWS IAM authentication, you must configure your AWS RDS database and the AWS IAM role that {{site.base_gateway}} uses.

- **Enable the IAM database authentication on your database instance.** For more information, see [Enabling and disabling IAM database authentication](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.Enabling.html) in the Amazon RDS user guide.
- **Assign an IAM role to your Kong Gateway instance.** {{site.base_gateway}} can automatically discover and fetch the AWS credentials to use for the IAM role.
   - If you use an EC2 environment, use the [EC2 IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/iam-roles-for-amazon-ec2.html).
   - If you use an ECS cluster, use a [ECS task IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/userguide/task-iam-roles.html).
   - If you use an EKS cluster, configure a Kubernetes service account that can annotate your assigned role and configure the pods to use an [IAM role defined by serviceaccount](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/associate-service-account-role.html).

>    - If you run {{site.base_gateway}} locally, use the following environment variables: `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `AWS_PROFILE`, and `AWS_SHARED_CREDENTIALS_FILE`

Author: There are two combinations in this point and user can choose either one of these two, no need to specify all these environment vars
```suggestion
   - If you run {{site.base_gateway}} locally, use the environment variables, like access key and secret key combination by using `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, or profile and credential file combination by using `AWS_PROFILE` and `AWS_SHARED_CREDENTIALS_FILE`
```

- **Ensure you create the database account in the RDS**. For more information, see [Using IAM authentication with PostgreSQL](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.DBAccounts.html#UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.DBAccounts.PostgreSQL) in the Amazon RDS documentation. 

   {:.note}
   > **Notes:** 
   > * The database user assigned to the `rds_iam` role can only use the IAM database authentication.
   > * Make sure to create the database and grant the correct permissions to the database user you just created. See [Using a database](/gateway/latest/install/linux/debian/#using-a-database) for more information.

## Enabling AWS IAM authentication

You can enable AWS IAM authentication by using an environment variable or using the {{site.base_gateway}} configuration file. You can either enable this feature in both read-only and read-write mode, or just enable it in read-only mode. 

{:.note}

> > **Note:** {{site.base_gateway}} ignores the `pg_ro_password` config property in read-only mode. It doesn't influence the read-write related configs, so `pg_user` and `pg_password` function normally. 

Author: ```suggestion
> **Note:** When the AWS IAM authentication is enabled, {{site.base_gateway}} will ignore the related password configs. Enabling the authentication only in read-only mode will not influence the read-write related configs, so `pg_user` and `pg_password` function normally. 
```

---

> title: Authenticate your Kong Gateway Amazon RDS database with AWS IAM

Reviewer 2: @windmgc Thanks for drafting this page! I made some content edits and moved a few sections around. If you could look this page over and let me know if I missed anything, that would be great! Thanks!

badge: enterprise
content_type: how-to
---

Starting in {{site.base_gateway}} 3.3.x, you can use AWS Identity and Access Management(IAM) authentication to connect to the AWS RDS database that you use for {{site.base_gateway}}. This page describes how to use this feature to secure your database configurations and database connections.

When you enable this feature, you don't need to use a password when you connect to a database instance. Instead, you use a temporary authentication token. Because AWS IAM manages the authentication externally, the database doesn't store user credentials. If you use AWS RDS for {{site.base_gateway}}'s database, you can enable this feature to your running cluster. This ensures that you don't have to store database user credentials on both the {{site.base_gateway}} (`pg_password`) and RDS database side. 

## AWS IAM authentication limitations

AWS IAM authentication also has some limitations. Go through each one before you use this feature in your production environment:

> * The number of IAM database authentication connections must be less than the maximum of 200 in a traditional {{site.base_gateway}} cluster. Establishing more connections can result in throttling. For more information, see [Recommendations for IAM database authentication](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.html#UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.ConnectionsPerSecond) in the Amazon RDS user guide. 

Reviewer 2: @windmgc Revised this sentence a bit to call out the "per second" part. Does this work?

> * The number of IAM database authentication connections must be less than the maximum of 200 in a traditional {{site.base_gateway}} cluster. Establishing more connections can result in throttling. For more information, see [Recommendations for IAM database authentication](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.html#UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.ConnectionsPerSecond) in the Amazon RDS user guide. 

Author: Could you please help modify the new sentence a bit on the following points? Just want to make sure that users can understand this limitation correctly:
- This does not only happens on the traditional cluster but also on single traditional nodes. Traditional cluster which is made up of multiple traditional nodes will have more possibility to hit this limitation because every node needs to establish connections to the database. If possible users should check the TPS of the connection establishment happens on their database to make sure they're not hitting this limitation.
- `only use IAM database authentication if Kong Gateway requires less than 200 new IAM database authentications per second` - this is correct, but users may not know that when will authentication happen. The authentication only happens on each connection's initialization part, after the connection is established successfully, the following queries and communication does not need authenticate.

Thanks in advance!

> * The number of IAM database authentication connections must be less than the maximum of 200 in a traditional {{site.base_gateway}} cluster. Establishing more connections can result in throttling. For more information, see [Recommendations for IAM database authentication](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.html#UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.ConnectionsPerSecond) in the Amazon RDS user guide. 

Reviewer 2: @windmgc Okay, added that info you suggested :)

* Enabling AWS IAM authentication requires SSL connection to the database. To do this, you must configure your RDS cluster correctly and provide the correct SSL-related configurations on {{site.base_gateway}}'s side. Enabling SSL also results in some performance overhead if you didn't previously use it. Currently, TLSv1.3 isn't supported by AWS RDS.
- Since the Postgres RDS does not support mTLS, you can't enable mTLS between the {{site.base_gateway}} and the Postgres RDS database when AWS IAM authentication is enabled.
- After enabling AWS IAM authentication in read-write or read-only mode, the `pg_password` or `pg_ro_password` configuration is ignored when establishing connections.
- You **can't** change the value of the environment variables that you use for the AWS credential after booting {{site.base_gateway}}.

> - A database user assigned to the `rds_iam` role can only authenticate with IAM database authentication.

Reviewer 2: @windmgc I just went through and removed it from the limitations section. It's still a note in the prerequisites section (which is how you originally had it) so the information is still in this doc, just not at the top of the page. Does that work?

> - A database user assigned to the `rds_iam` role can only authenticate with IAM database authentication.

Author: LGTM!

   - If you use an ECS cluster, use a [ECS task IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/userguide/task-iam-roles.html).
   - If you use an EKS cluster, configure a Kubernetes service account that can annotate your assigned role and configure the pods to use an [IAM role defined by serviceaccount](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/associate-service-account-role.html).
   - If you run {{site.base_gateway}} locally, use the following environment variables: `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `AWS_PROFILE`, and `AWS_SHARED_CREDENTIALS_FILE`
   
   {:.warning}
   > **Warning:** You **can't** change the value of the environment variables you used to provide the AWS credential after booting {{site.base_gateway}}. Any changes are ignored.

- **Assign an IAM policy to the {{site.base_gateway}} IAM role**. For more information, see [Creating and using an IAM policy for IAM database access](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.IAMPolicy.html) in the Amazon RDS documentation.

> - **Ensure you have the database account created in the RDS**. For more information, see [Using IAM authentication with PostgreSQL](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.DBAccounts.html#UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.DBAccounts.PostgreSQL) in the Amazon RDS documentation. 

Author: I saw that you removed those code/terminal snippets, should we keep them to make it convenient for users?(only my idea)

Reviewer 2: @windmgc I removed them because I thought that the linked Amazon doc covered the code snippets (let me know if it's missing something though). For prerequisite sections, we try to keep the instructions shorter otherwise it might belong in the steps instead. And I didn't want to repeat information that Amazon already had published.

Author: Okay, sounds good

> * Make sure to create the database and grant the correct permissions to the database user you just created. See [Using a database](/gateway/latest/install/linux/debian/#using-a-database) for more information.

## Enabling AWS IAM authentication

You can enable AWS IAM authentication by using an environment variable or using the {{site.base_gateway}} configuration file. You can either enable this feature in both read-only and read-write mode, or just enable it in read-only mode. 

{:.note}
> **Note:** {{site.base_gateway}} ignores the `pg_ro_password` config property in read-only mode. It doesn't influence the read-write related configs, so `pg_user` and `pg_password` function normally. 

Before you enable AWS IAM authentication, you must do the following in the `kong.conf` file:
* Remove the `pg_password` or `pg_ro_password`.
* Check that `pg_user` or `pg_ro_user` matches the username you defined in the IAM policy and created in the Postgres RDS database.

### Enable AWS IAM authentication with environment variables

To enable AWS IAM authentication in read-write mode, set the `KONG_PG_IAM_AUTH` environment variable to `on`: 

```bash

> KONG_PG_IAM_AUTH=on

Author: Note: setting this will enable the feature both on read-write and read-only
